# dsiprojects
### Overview

This project seeks to identify the best recommendation model that obtains the best top-N accuracy metrics for the dataset. The techniques that will be explored in this project include: content-based, collaborative-filtering and hybrid. Content-based models users’ tastes based upon their past behaviors, but does not benefit from data on other users. On the contrary, collaborative filtering use the collaborative power of the ratings provided by multiple users to make recommendations and rely mostly on leveraging either inter-item correlations or inter-user interactions for the prediction process. Intuitively, it relies on an underlying notion that two users who rate items similarly are likely to have comparable preferences for other items. The hybrid technique seeks to combine various aspects from different types of systems to achieve the best of all worlds. The approach is comparable to the conventional ensemble analysis approach, where the power of multiple types of machine learning algorithms is combined to create a more robust model.

In the words of the Prime Minister of Singapore on 7 June 2020 in a national broadcast, "COVID-19 is not only a public health issue. It is also a serious economic, social and political problem. It is in fact the most dangerous crisis humanity has faced in a very long time."

The impact of COVID-19 is evident on businesses and economies across the globe. Even before the pandemic, independent players in the book industry had to contend with bigger players like Amazon and rising rents.

Beyond the pandemic, independent bookstores that have changed course and joined the online retail ecosystem can explore implementing recommendation systems that if set up and configured properly, can significantly boost revenues and have positive effects on the user experience as well, which translates into metrics that are harder to measure but are nonetheless of much importance to online businesses, such as customer satisfaction and retention.

### Datasets

#### Provided Data

The provided datasets are as follows:

- [amazon book review dataset](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/18qIFNVPkcoHwV5LmU5MYCCUyfHGZXrjI?usp=sharing)
- [amazon book metadata dataset](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/18qIFNVPkcoHwV5LmU5MYCCUyfHGZXrjI?usp=sharing)

These are the subsets of the original datasets. The complete dataset with both datasets is also [available](https://nijianmo.github.io/amazon/index.html).

### Data Dictionary

|Feature|Type|Dataset|Description|
|:---|:---:|:---:|:---|
|overall|int|amazon book review|The rating for the book|
|verified|bool|amazon book review|check if user has received product at a deep discount|
|reviewTime|object|amazon book review|time at which review was written|
|reviewerID|object|amazon book review|ID assigned to each reviewer|
|asin|object|amazon book review|unique product ID assigned to each book|
|style|object|amazon book review| a dictionary of the product metadata|
|reviewerName|object|amazon book review|name of reviewer|
|reviewText|object|amazon book review|text of the review|
|summary|object|amazon book review|summary of review|
|unixReviewTime|object|amazon book review|unix timestamp of review|
|summary|object|amazon book review|summary of review|
|unixReviewTime|int|amazon book review|unix timestamp of review|
|image|object|amazon book review|images that users post after they have received the product|
|vote|object|amazon book review| helpful votes of the review|

|Feature|Type|Dataset|Description|
|:---|:---:|:---:|:---|
|description|object|amazon book metadata|The description of the book|
|title|object|amazon book metadata|the title of the book|
|also_buy|object|amazon book metadata|list of books commonly bought with the book|
|brand|object|amazon book metadata|author related text|
|rank|object|amazon book metadata|sales rank  information|
|also_view|object|amazon book metadata|list of books often viewed alongside this book|
|main_cat|object|amazon book metadata|main category of product|
|price|object|amazon book metadata|price of book|
|asin|object|amazon book metadata|unique product ID assigned to each book|
|category|object|amazon book metadata|list of categories the product belongs to|
|image|object|amazon book metadata|url of the product image|
|feature|object|amazon book metadata|bullet-point format features of the product|
### Summary

|        Model        |    recall@5   | recall@10 |
|:-------------------:|:--------------:|:-------:|
|         Popularity         |  0.413076 |    0.542086   |
|         Collaborative Filtering         |  0.576140 |    0.710156   |  
| Content-Based |   0.898594   |  0.911581  |   
| Hybrid |   0.542114   |  0.542443  |


The content-based filtering technique performed the best. Recommendations generated by comparing the word vectors generated for each user and the books in the dataset gave the best recall@N score.

One of the objectives of a recommender system is that we learn preferences of users/new users in recommender systems so that they can begin receiving accurate personalized recommendations from the system. With enough data (user-item interactions), collaborative filtering can be explored. A hybrid approach can subsequently be adopted such that in the event where sufficient data is available for a user, equal weightage can be applied on the content-based and collaborative filtering methods.

### Content

There are 3 notebooks:
1. Capstone.ipynb
2. Data.ipynb
3. PMF.ipynb
